Preferred food: Regular Kibble, Vegetables, Mejoberry, Berries

Diplodocus is able to be both traditionally knockout tamed or passive tamed. If you attract its attention, it will try to push you away, which deals no direct damage (indirectly: fall damage or being pushed into hostile creatures).

There is no need to take any exact caution with the Diplodocus in terms of passive taming. Even if "aggro'd", granted its vocalization when it notices the player and the voices it makes when "attacking", it is simply trying to be friendly, by nudging the player. The only concern to this is that the knockback might deal fall damage. If taming near uneven terrain, you might want to use a more careful approach, such as traditional passive taming, to avoid it noticing you. By standing near its front legs at the base of its neck or under its belly, you can actually stay out of the range of its nudging. However, it is perfectly fine to have some fun and play with the Diplodocus by letting it bounce you around, as it will not affect taming effectiveness so long as you don't hit it, and make sure as you "play" to get close enough at times to make sure you can feed the Diplodocus again. It is most likely the easiest of all passive tames, and in this unique "playing with a dinosaur to tame it and bond with it" aspect, the most fun tame. This "playing with the Diplodocus" taming method is also useful for moving it away from predators which could attack it, and leading it to a safer spot where the tame can be easier.

Standing under it, just behind its front legs will cause it to try and hit you continually, without actually managing it, making it completely stationary and unable to move you. Easy for non-violent tame. However, it should be noted that the time interval between the first and second feeding is very long while every other time is much shorter.

Should you wish to avoid being bounced around you can use a Ghillie Suit to decrease the chance of it noticing you. You can also stay within the area where it can't hit you, behind and underneath it.

Additionally, you can use a grappling hook to stop the knockback at a certain distance. (Or just pull yourself so close you don't get knocked back at all.)