Preferred food: Plant Species Z Seed, Auric Mushroom, Amarberry Seed, Citronal Seed

To feed it, place preferred food on the last slot of your hotbar, then when approached press use (default E, Y, Triangle) to feed it. You cannot feed them all the food required for taming at one time, you must wait every couple of minutes until it is hungry again to feed it more until its taming meter is filled.

Taming Strategy: Since they spawn in dangerous areas, where either you or the Featherlight could be killed, and because they have a tendency to fly away, it is best to box them in. When the Featherlight lands, place a stone foundation on it and quickly surround it with walls and a ceiling. Then replace one of the walls with a door and tame it in the stone hut. This will protect you and the tame from the creatures outside and will prevent it from flying away during the tame. If you're having trouble securing the Featherlight inside your box you can use a grapple hook on it while it is landed (you cannot grapple a flying Featherlight). This will not damage the creature and will allow you to "reel it in". This allows you to either simply tame it while attached to the grapple, or allows you extra time to build your box before it flies away again.

An even easier method would be to bring a wooden cage and honey. Wait till the featherlight lands, then drop the honey about 10 feet away from it. As it walks towards the honey, put the cage over the honey and open the door. Close the door when the featherlight enters. There's no need to open the door to feed it-it can be fed through the bars of the cage. Don't try to put the cage directly over the featherlight, it will not work (without disabled collision).

Charge Lantern: Another Method would be to use a charge lantern to forcefully ground the featherlight. The stun from the Charge Lantern forces fliers to land, allowing you to get close. As it does no damage, this method won't hurt Taming Efficiency and it wont chase the featherlight away. Be wary of other Dangers however. You cannot shoot a grounded Featherlight, so only fire when it takes flight.