Preferred food: Simple Kibble, Rare Flower, Raw Mutton

The Giant Bee is a passive tame. You have to crack open the hive to get to the queen, then feed it  Simple Kibble or  Rare Flower. She will also eat Raw and Cooked Mutton.

Some hives are empty though. If the hive is occupied, a swarm of Giant Bees will come out and attack the person who damaged it. You can check without damaging the hive, however, by staying near it and listening for the sounds the queen makes, as she can be heard beating her wings and occasionally buzzing from inside. Only occupied hives have a Queen - empty ones just have some honey to harvest every 15 minutes (press E, Y, Triangle on the hive).

Use a dino or shoot the nest until it breaks. You can also build a Wooden Pillar under the hive and place a C4 Charge on top of the pillar to take the hive out in a single blast without having to worry about getting stung. The Queen will slowly descend towards the ground where you can begin taming. You can use a  Quetzal or another flying mount, but be warned, if it gets stung you will get dismounted. A Quetzal with a Platform Saddle is the best option due to its high AOE (area of effect), and you won't be thrown far if you're dismounted. Try not to accidentally kill the queen. Sometimes the queen gets stuck in the tree and will not move from where her hive was destroyed.

One very effective method to gain access to a queen is to use  Dimorphodons as they are extremely efficient for breaking open bee hives and aiding in the taming of the queen, arguably more so than using firearms or explosives. Being flyers, a small swarm of Dimorphodons can easily reach and quickly break open any hive when whistled to attack it, without angering the drones, provided the player keeps a far enough distance away while they do this. Once the hive is broken and the queen is exposed, they can be whistled to passive and brought back, without harming the queen or drawing the attention of drones so long as they are called back quickly enough. Once returned to the player's position, they can be set to neutral to guard any mounts or other tamed dinos while the player is occupied with the long-chase process of taming the queen bee. A suggested mount to use while searching for bee hives, that pairs nicely with the Dimorphodons, is a  Tapejara. With their maneuverability in flight, they make controlling the camera and spotting wild hives that much easier.

Once the hive is broken and the queen exposed, use a  Ghillie Suit to prevent stings, as well as  Bug Repellant to get close enough. Feeding your dino Bug Repellant does work in combination with your repellant. This allows you to get close enough without angering the drones. However, if you get too close or touch the queen, the drones will become angry and attack regardless.

Sometimes it is possible to get more than one Queen from the wild hive.