Preferred food: Basic Kibble, Vegetables, Mejoberry, Berries

Mesopithecus is tamed non-violently, rather than through the usual methods. Put the food you wish to feed it with in the far-right slot of your hotbar. Then, approach Mesopithecus and press the use key (default:E) to feed it when the button prompt appears. Do not get any closer than necessary for the prompt to appear, or Mesopithecus will get scared and run away. (It helps to crouch, and to a lesser extent wear a Ghillie Suit.) If it runs, try to keep it in sight - they can get fairly far away and their small size makes them easy to lose—but avoid chasing after it or it will continue to run. If your soon to be new best friend becomes spooked, it is recommended to get on a flying mount and take off. The monkey will no longer become startled by you (as once it has become spooked it will continue to be if the survivor is within a rather large range of said monkey). Be mindful of its health bar whilst taming, every time the Mesopithecus becomes startled it will lose a small fraction of its health, scare it too many times and it will die.Also be aware of any water near by, as Mesopithecus tend to drown if they run into the water. On PS4 (not confirmed on other platforms), if your mesopithecus runs into the water most of the time you can literally punch the monkey in the direction of the shore. Most of the time the mesopithecus will come out of the water calm and ready to be tamed.

Crouching and following the monkey will making taming much easier. With berries one must try to follow the Mesopithecus as far away as possible while still seeing the "wait till it is hungry again text" as Mesopithecus will starve to death/lose taming effectiveness very quickly with Mejoberries. It is HIGHLY recommended to use kibble.

An Argentavis or a Pteranodon can be used to pick it up and put it in a box, but this can sometimes cause the Mesopithecus to become permanently startled and therefore untameable. Rendering it unconscious resets this. Sometimes a taming box is not needed, just a high cliff area. When the mesopithecus is dropped from a high altitude it will land and become calm.

If too much time is spent between feedings then the taming bar will decrease slowly, so Kibble is more effective and allows you to make up for progress lost while defending against predators or trying to find the creature after it has run away.