The Phoenix is only found on the Scorched Earth map during a Heat Wave weather event.

The Phoenix can be found in a random location a good distance up in the sky (approximately where Tapejara fly as well). The Phoenix must be struck with flaming weapons in order to tame. This includes the Flamethrower, Flaming Arrows and Fire Wyvern breath. When struck by fire, the taming bar will increase minutely. It takes a long time, and If the process is not completed before the Heat Wave ends the Phoenix will disintegrate into a pile of ashes. The Phoenix will spawn from the same ash pile at the start of the next Heat Wave.

It should be noted that if a Phoenix can be found while outside a Heat Wave, it cannot be tamed by blowing fire on it. Phoenixes will spawn above their ash heaps at the start of the next heatwave. It is possible to catch them in a cage to ease taming if you can find an ash heap or track a living Phoenix to the end of a previous Heat Wave event. The cage should be at least 5 walls high because they spawn above their ashes, not in them. The Phoenix can fly through any opening except a single doorway.

Also, it appears that once a Player hits a Phoenix with fire the taming progress does not regress, damage does not undo the progress, and Phoenixes do not lose any levels as a result of damage taken while taming. It will lose taming effectiveness when waiting too long between "hits" with fire. Additionally it seems that no one else can finish the tame except the tribe that started it.

Once tamed, the Phoenix will eat only  Sulfur. It can not land, and must be mounted/dismounted in the air.

Flame Arrows
Hitting a flying Phoenix with a  Flame Arrow is rather hard, and they are by far the least effective in taming progress. The arrows themselves do impact damage while the flames do not. However damaging the Phoenix during taming won't hurt the effectiveness of the tame.

Flamethrower
Flying after a Phoenix and drenching it in fire with the  Flamethrower Scorched Earth Icon.png is effective; though you will need a lot of gas and 2 or 3 flamethrowers to complete a high level tame.

Fire Wyvern
Perhaps one of the most efficient, and fastest method of taming a Phoenix is to search for it and follow it with a high stamina  Fire Wyvern. The Fire Wyverns breath has the most effect for taming progress compared to all the other methods, and keeping up with a Phoenix in the air is made easier with a Wyvern. This method can be made even easier by using a built trap, another Fire Wyvern,(preferably of the opposite sex, as the mate boost increases the breath damage and thus makes taming faster), a survivor held in the Wyvern's claws equipped with a flamethrower if flying, using oil jars in addition, or by combining all of the above options for maximum taming prowess.

Oil Jars
Oil Jars can be used to tame the Phoenix if you know where their Ashes are, and you don't have means for multiple flamethrowers, or access to a Fire Wyvern. Mark the spot exactly where the Phoenix's ashes lay and bring the Oil Jars with either some Fire arrows or Flamethrower to start a fire. Building materials are also required to create a trap to keep the Phoenix in one place. Once the Phoenix arises again from the ashes, break the jar right under it, and light it on fire. Each Oil jar's fire lasts for a significant time of 30 seconds and it is relatively cheap to do.

You can get it to spawn next to your base because of the following: It always respawns at it's last location, so if the heatwave ends while you are following it you will know where it is for the next heatwave. It also chases you when you eat flowers... hint hint